Coc updates (#15)
fosstodon/hub: covenant.md

---
title: Our Covenant | Fosstodon Hub
description: The Fosstodon Team Covenant.
permalink: /covenant/
layout: default
---
## Fosstodon Team Covenant
v0.1.0-2025-06-19

The Fosstodon team is responsible for the upkeep of Fosstodon. While not all members of the team engage directly in all forms of moderation, all commit to the following:

1. Acknowledge our privileges. Above all else, taking on responsibility for Fosstodon grants us privileges and authority that others do not have. This is a pledge to use our privilege for good.

> 2. Aim for safety, prioritize those who are vulnerable, and consider impact before intentions. This includes believing people when their own actions show us who they are.

Reviewer: > This includes believing people when their own actions show us who they are.

I have no idea what this means.

Author: Meaning that moderation actions don't happen in a vacuum and a user's actions both in reported content and outside of it has weight in our moderation decisions.

Reviewer: That's helpful thanks. I think the text could be clearer for those without the necessary context. How about the following?
```suggestion
2. Aim for safety, prioritize those who are vulnerable, and consider impact before intentions. This includes judging people by their actions rather than their words alone.
```

3. Consider our potential for ignorance, and trust those who bring concerns. We will verify before acting, and seek relevant advice when we have doubts.
4. Engage with respect, acknowledge the humanity of all involved, and take the minimum action required to have a positive impact on safety.

> 5. Bear the burden of criticism, take accountability for mistakes, and commit to meaningful action and change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Bear the burden of criticism, be accountable for mistakes, and commit to meaningful action and change.
```

Reviewer 2: There's a distinct difference here. "Take accountability" is active language and the activeness is meaningful. It implies that the accountability is welcomed. "Be accountable" is passive language and does not imply cooperation in the process.

6. Moderate and lead with empathy, remember that individuals have different life experiences. Work to learn and let that guide your decisions.
7. Treat all internal discussions, user reports, and moderation decisions with appropriate confidentiality. Respect the privacy and dignity of those involved.

> Fosstodon moderation leans towards a one-strike policy before suspension of members.

Reviewer: Not sure what "one-strike" means. It sounds like "one strike and you're out", meaning zero tolerance. But that doesn't fit with "before suspension". Should it say "two-strike policy"? (This is confusing for non-Americans, like me, who think it may be something to do with baseball.)
```suggestion
Fosstodon moderation leans towards giving members who have infringed the Fosstodon Code of Conduct just one more chance before suspending them.
```

Reviewer: Thanks. The prefer the text to make that clear for those of us who really are not familiar with the terminology of a "one-strike policy". How about the following?
```suggestion
Fosstodon moderation leans towards warning a user on their first infraction of the Fosstodon Code of Conduct and suspending them on the second. 
```

Author: I've adjusted the language slightly here in [3420f32](https://github.com/fosstodon/hub/pull/15/commits/3420f325c2594f608944abd0f927cd90ad2cad5a)

6. Moderate and lead with empathy, remember that individuals have different life experiences. Work to learn and let that guide your decisions.
7. Treat all internal discussions, user reports, and moderation decisions with appropriate confidentiality. Respect the privacy and dignity of those involved.

> Fosstodon moderation leans towards a one-strike policy, giving members one chance after infringing on our Code of Conduct before suspension. The exceptions for this are spam and threats to safety, credible or otherwise.

Reviewer: That's much clearer, thanks.
